WIP: Add a Tutorial and Wiki section to the documentation (#79)
davenverse/shellfish: docs/files/file_manipulation.md

# Handling files and doing operations

> Beyond simple read and write operations, this section allows you to interact directly with the file system. There are functions for creating and deleting files and directories, creating temporary files for short-term use, and managing file and directory permissions for added control, among other useful methods.

Reviewer: ```diff
-this section
+the library
```

## Creating files and directories

> This section enables you to create new files and directories, as well as delete existing ones.

Reviewer: Either

```
In this section you'll see how to create new files and directories, as well as delete existing ones.
```

or

```
(The following feature/Shellfish) lets you to create new files and directories, as well as delete existing ones.
```

Author: I chose the first one

### `createFile`

Creates a new file in the specified path, failing if the parent directory does not exist. You can also specify some permissions if you wish. To see what the `exists` function does, see [the reference](#exists):

@:select(api-style)

@:choice(syntax)

```scala 3
import cats.syntax.all.* /* for the >> operator, its just a
                          * rename for flatMap( _ => IO(...) )

>                           */

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import cats.syntax.all.*
```

import shellfish.syntax.path.*

val path = Path("path/to/create/file.txt")

> path.createFile >> path.exists // Should return true

Reviewer: `// Should return true`

This snippet and all the following ones don't do anything at all. You're not printing the result, not running the IO.

Can you turn the examples into running snippets?

Author: Not quite, most I can do as I'm aware is compiling them with the `compile-only` flag with `mdoc`. Another option would be to use a library like [mdoc-effect](https://github.com/indoorvivants/mdoc-effect) or create something similar ourselves 🤔

In the meantime, I will start adding the compile only flags to the snippets!

```

@:choice(static)

```scala 3
import cats.syntax.all.* /* for the >> operator, its just a
                          * rename for flatMap( _ => IO(...) )
                          */

import shellfish.FilesOs.*

val path = Path("path/to/create/file.txt")

createFile(path) >> exists(path) // Should return true
```

@:choice(fs2)

```scala 3
import cats.syntax.all.* /* for the >> operator, its just a
                          * rename for flatMap( _ => IO(...) )
                          */

import fs2.io.file.Files

val path = Path("path/to/create/file.txt")

Files[IO].createFile(path) >> Files[IO].exists(path) // Should return true
```

@:@

### `createDirectories`

> Creates all the directories in the path, with the default permissions or, with supplyed ones:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creates all the directories in the path, with the default permissions or, with the supplied ones:
```

@:select(api-style)

@:choice(syntax)

```scala 3
val directories = Path("here/are/some/dirs")
val path = directories / Path("file.txt")

directories.createDirectories >> path.createFile
```

@:choice(static)

```scala 3
val directories = Path("here/are/some/dirs")
val path = directories / Path("file.txt")

createDirectories(directories) >> createFile(path)
```

@:choice(fs2)

```scala 3
val directories = Path("here/are/some/dirs")
val path = directories / Path("file.txt")

Files[IO].createDirectories(directories) >> Files[IO].createFile(path)
```

@:@

### `createTempFile`

> If you want to create a temporary file that is automatically deleted by the operating system, you can use this function. It accepts cero parameters if you prefer to use the default ones, or multiple parameters such as a directory, a prefix (the name of the file), a suffix (the extension of the file) and some permissions if you feel like declaring them. It return the path of the recently created file: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This function creates a temporary file that gets automatically deleted by the operating system. It optionally accepts multiple parameters such as a directory, a prefix (the name of the file), a suffix (the extension of the file) and permissions. It returns the path of the newly created file: 
```

@:select(api-style)

@:choice(syntax)

```scala 3
for 
  path <- createTempFile

  // Its going to be deleted eventually!
  _ <- path.write("I don't wanna go!") 
yield ()
```

@:choice(static)

```scala 3
for 
  path <- createTempFile
  
  // Its going to be deleted eventually!
  _ <- write(path, "I don't wanna go!") 
yield ()
```

@:choice(fs2)

```scala 3
Stream.eval(Files[IO].createTempFile)
  flatMap( path => 
    Stream.emit("I don't wanna go!")
      .through(Files[IO].writeUtf(path))
  )
  .compile
  .drain
```

@:@

### `tempFile`

> Very similar to `createTempFile`, but Cats Effect handles the deletion of the file via [Resource](https://typelevel.org/cats-effect/docs/std/resource). Accepts the same parameters like a custom directory, a prefix, a suffix, and some permissions but returns a `Resource` containing the path of the file:

Reviewer: The functionality itself should be removed from the lib as we don't plan to make newcomers understand what `Resource` does.

Author: Yup, same as with the `withCharset` variants, going to change that right on as well :D

@:select(api-style)

@:choice(syntax)

```scala 3
tempFile.use: path =>
  path.write("I have accepted my fate...")
```

@:choice(static)

```scala 3
tempFile.use: path =>
  write(path, "I have accepted my fate...")
```

@:choice(fs2)

```scala 3
Files[IO].tempFile.use: path =>
  Stream.emit("I have accepted my fate...")
   .through(Files[IO].writeUtf8(path))
   .compile
   .drain
```

@:@

### `createTempDirectory`

> Creates a temporary directory that will eventually be deleted by the operating system. Takes as parameters a custom directory, a prefix (the name of the directory) and some permissions, or you can specify nothing and it will use some defaults. Returns the path to the created directory: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creates a temporary directory that will eventually be deleted by the operating system. It accepts a few optional parameters like a custom parent directory, a prefix and some permissions. It returns the path to the newly created directory: 
```

@:select(api-style)

@:choice(syntax)

```scala 3
for 
  dir <- createTempDirectory
  _ <- (dir / "tempfile.tmp").createFile
yield ()
```

@:choice(static)

```scala 3
for 
  dir <- createTempDirectory
  _ <- createFile(dir / "tempfile.tmp")
yield ()

```

@:choice(fs2)

```scala 3
for 
  dir <- Files[IO].createTempDirectory
  _   <- Files[IO].createFile(dir / "tempfile.tmp")
yield ()

```

@:@

### `tempDirectory`

> Similar to `createTempDirectory`, but the deletion of the directory is managed by Cats Effect using a [Resource](https://typelevel.org/cats-effect/docs/std/resource). Takes the same arguments as a custom directory, a prefix and some permissions. Returns a `Resource` containing the path to the directory:

Reviewer: The functionality itself should be removed from the lib.

## Deleting files and directories

### `delete`

Deletes a file or empty directory that must exist (otherwise it will fail). 

@:select(api-style)

@:choice(syntax)

```scala 3
import cats.syntax.all.*

path.createFile >> 
  path.write("TOP SECRET 🚫, MUST DELETE") >>
    path.delete
```

@:choice(static)

```scala 3
import cats.syntax.all.*

createFile(path) >> 
  write(path, "TOP SECRET 🚫, MUST DELETE") >>
    path.delete
```

@:choice(fs2)

```scala 3
for
  _ <- Files[IO].createFile(path)

  _ <- Stream.emit("TOP SECRET 🚫, MUST DELETE")
        .through(Files[IO].writeUtf8(path))
        .compile
        .drain

  _ <- Files[IO].delete(path)
```

@:@

### `deleteIfExists`

Similar to `delete`, but returns `true` if the deletion was succesfull instead of failing: 

@:select(api-style)

@:choice(syntax)

```scala 3
path.deleteIfExists >>= 
  (deleted => IO.println(s"Was the file deleted? $deleted"))
```

@:choice(static)

```scala 3
deleteIfExists(path) >>= 
  (deleted => IO.println(s"Was the file deleted? $deleted"))
```

@:choice(fs2)

```scala 3
Files[IO].deleteIfExists(path) >>= 
  (deleted => IO.println(s"Was the file deleted? $deleted"))
```

@:@

### `deleteRecursively`

> With the previous functions, the directory had to be empty to be deleted. The difference with this method is that it recursively deletes all files or folders contained inside it, optionally following symbolic links if specified: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Recursively deletes all files or folders, following symbolic links if specified: 
```

### `copy`

Copies a file from a source path to a target path. The method will fail if the destination path already exists; to avoid this behaviour, you can pass flags to e.g., replace the contents in the destination:

@:select(api-style)

@:choice(syntax)

```scala 3
val source = Path("source/file/secret.txt")
val target = Path("target/dir/not_so_secret.txt")

for 
  _ <- source.write("The no-cloning theorem says you can't copy me!")
  _ <- source.copy(target)
yield ()
```

@:choice(static)

```scala 3
val source = Path("source/file/secret.txt")
val target = Path("target/dir/not_so_secret.txt")

for 
  _ <- write(source, "The no-cloning theorem says you can't copy me!")
  _ <- copy(source, target)
yield ()
```

@:choice(fs2)

```scala 3
val source = Path("source/file/secret.txt")
val target = Path("target/dir/not_so_secret.txt")

Stream.emit("The no-cloning theorem says you can't copy me!")
  .through(Files[IO].writeUtf8(source))
  .evalTap(_ => Files[IO].copy(source, target))
  .compile
  .drain
```

@:@

### `move`

> Very similar to `copy`, but deletes the file in the original destination path. Also, optionally takes flags as arguments to define its move behaviour:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Very similar to `copy`, but deletes the file in the original destination path. Optionally takes flags as arguments to define its move behaviour:
```

@:select(api-style)

@:choice(syntax)

```scala 3
val source = Path("i/cant/move.mp4")
val target = Path("teleporting/around/movie.mp4")

source.move(target)
```

@:choice(static)

```scala 3
val source = Path("i/cant/move.mp4")
val target = Path("teleporting/around/movie.mp4")

move(source, target)
```

@:choice(fs2)

```scala 3
val source = Path("i/cant/move.mp4")
val target = Path("teleporting/around/movie.mp4")

Files[IO].move(source, target)
```

@:@

### `exists`

> This function checks whether or not a file exists in a specified path and returns `true` if it does:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This function checks whether or not a file exists at a specified path:
```
